# Weekly report - day 1

*Wednesday, January 17th*

### Overview of the day

Due to an absence of our English teacher, we had our first half-day of project (a total of 3:15) this week.

Initially, we found ourselves somewhat disoriented when reviewing the call for tender, attempting to comprehend the expectations.

In light of this confusion, our Program Manager was on the verge of drafting an email to our client. However, as we started discussing and explaining our individual understandings, we get progressively the shape of what the client wanted until it was clear for everybody.

Subsequently, we thought together, leaded by the Program Manager, about all the bases of functional specifications, trying to bring real added value to the creation of yet another assembly language.

<hr>

### Accomplishments

- We get a clear idea of what we are going to develop.
- We defined the main tasks of the project, on an already prepared tasks' management platform.
- We started the functional specification.

### Challenges

   - Understand the call for tender ("What this virtual processor is ?",  "How to create a new assembly language ?")
   - Express our ideas about technic and abstract concepts in English (so we used French a bit)

### Plan for next Week

- Progress on the functional specifications, to give some clear instructions to the tech lead and the developers.
- For the dev : Begin to develop the bases of the code in C, the reading functions of the asm file.
- Management : Build and begin to fill the KPIs dashboard and the documentation on the GitHub.
- QA : Begin the test plan, the tests' strategy.
- Tech Lead : Define all the conventions for the developers and begin the technical specifications.