# Weekly report - week 3

*From --- Monday, January 22th ---  to  --- Friday, January 26th ---*

### Overview of the week

During the two first days of this week, we continued to define the functional specification of our new assembly language and began to code an interpreter from Assembly to direct emulation in a virtual processor. Then, on Wednesday, we had a meeting with the client, and we understood many things, particularly the expectation to have on one hand a compiler from assembly language to machine code, and on the other hand, an emulator and interpreter of the machine code in the virtual processor. Also, we rethought the instructions and their parameters, regarding the machine code aspect. Also, we advanced on the management, technical, and quality assurance documents.

<hr>


### Accomplishments

- We made a C program to read an assembly file and get the algorithm from text.
- We worked as far as possible (waiting for the complete functional specification) on the error handling in the compilation.
- We built the first virtual components (the registers) of the processor and the way to read/write in them.
- With these registers, we were able to code the first instructions for the emulator like basic operations and logic operands.
- We had a meeting with the client and redacted the minutes of it.
- We worked a lot on functional specification, particularly about the syntax, the mnemonics, and the behavior of the instructions, as well as the machine code encoding of the algorithm for each instruction.
- We have done the complete list of tasks and the KPI data, with three charts for now.
- We have done the final project charter adapted from the new understanding of the client's expectations we get with the meeting.
- We specified the architecture implementation details and the coding conventions in the technical specification and began to work on the compiler and interpreter part of the document. 
- The QA has already coded some assembly programs with our assembly language to put it to the test.

### Challenges

   - The meeting with the client had a huge impact on the project: We planned to have a direct assembly to emulation interpreter, so now we'll pass by a machine code file. Consequently, the functional and the beginning of the code we had, will be impacted.
   - We will need a lot more time than expected.
   - We are late regarding the expectations.
   - Employees are quite discouraged by all the work to do, particularly about all the new functional specification seeing the deadline.

### Plan for Next Week

- Functional: Progress on the functional specification, to give some clear instructions to the tech lead and the developers.
- Developer: First, help with the functional specification, especially the machine code part. Then, as soon as the instructions are well defined, they will code these.
- Management: I will finish the charts of the KPIs, then make the RACI and Gant chart, to finally complete the readme about how to run our project.
- QA: Continue the test plan, the tests' strategy, and also create the bug report's template.
- Tech Lead: move forward on the technical specification, in parallel with the functional ones.